SelectedVcf utility {#SelectedVcf}
=====

This utility takes coordinate file `All.vcf` generated by DL_MESO `traject`
utility (which was modified by me) and creates a new `.vcf` coordinate file
containing only beads of selected types. The initial `All.vcf` file is
ordered coordinate file which means that every bead is present, while the
otput `.vcf` file is indexed coordinates file which means that only some
beads are present along with their index numbers.

All information about the system is read from `FIELD` (and optional bond
file - \ref BondFile) and `dl_meso.vsf` (or other structure file - \ref
StructureFile).

Usage:

`SelectedVcf <input.vcf> <start> <skip> <output.vcf> <type names> <options>`

> `<input.vcf>`
> > input coordinate filename (must end with `.vcf` and contain ordered
> > timesteps)
> `<start>`
> > number of timestep to start from
> `<skip>`
> > leave out every `skip` steps
> `<output.vcf>`
> > output filename with indexed coordinates (must end with `.vcf`)
> `<type names>`
> > names of bead types to save
> `<options>`
> > `-i <name>`
> > > use custom `.vsf` structure file instead of the default `dl_meso.vsf`
> > > (must end with `.vsf`)
> > `-b <name>`
> > > file containing bond alternatives to `FIELD`
> > `-v`
> > > verbose output providing information about the system
> > `-V`
> > > more detailed verbose output (also prints comments from `All.vcf` at
> > > the start of every timestep)
> > `-h`
> > > print help and exit

Format of input coordinate file {#OrderedCoorFile}
=====

This utility is designed with `All.vcf` file in mind which is generated by
the `traject` utility provided in DL_MESO software (and modified by me).
But any `.vcf` file with ordered coordinates following these guidelines can
be used.

First line contains box size. Each timestep starts with a comment line
(i.e. the line starts with `#` sign), the second line contains `timestep`
(or the short version, `t`) and each following line contains the
coordinates of a single bead. Every bead from `.vsf` structure file must be
present in each timestep. This format is given by the VTF trajectory file
format (to make visualization with VMD easy).

Exactly one blank line must be between every two timesteps and no blank
lines are allowed at the end of the file.

Example of coordinate file:

> `pbc <float> <float> <float>`
>
> `<blank line>`
>
> `# 1`
>
> `timestep`
>
> `<float> <float> <float>`
>
> `...`

Format of output coordinate file {#IndexedCoorFile}
=====

Unlike the input `.vcf` file, the outut coordinate file contains indexed
timesteps. Incomplete list of beads is therefore present in each timestep
and every bead is prepended by its index number according to the `.vsf`
structure file. Keyword `timestep` (or `t`) at the beginning of every
timestep is replaced by `indexed` (or its short version `i`). Otherwise the
file has the same format as the input `.vcf` file.

Example of indexed coordinate file:

> `pbc <float> <float> <float>`
>
> `<blank line>`
>
> `# 1`
>
> `indexed`
>
> `<id> <float> <float> <float>`
>
> `...`
