TransformVsf utility {#TransformVsf}
=====

This utility takes `.vsf` structure file and DL_MESO input file `FIELD` and
transforms them into a different `.vsf` structure file that is well suited
for visualisation using VMD software. A special file with bonds of any
molecule type(s) can be used instead of bond information from `FIELD`. The
output structure file contains name, mass and charge of every bead. In case
of a bead in a molecule, it also contains its name and id.

Usage:

`TransformVsf <output.vsf> <options>`

> `<output.vsf>`
> > output structure file that must end with `.vsf`
> `<options>`
> > `-i <name>`
> > > use custom `.vsf` structure file instead of the default `dl_meso.vsf`
> > > (must end with `.vsf`)
> > `-b <name>`
> > > file containing bond alternatives to `FIELD`
> > `-v`
> > > verbose output providing information about the system
> > `-h`
> > > print help and exit

Format of input structure file {#StructureFile}
=====

The software package is designed with file `dl_meso.vsf` in mind, which is
generated by the `traject` utility provided in DL_MESO software (and modified
by me).  `TransformVsf` was tested only against files generated by `traject`,
but other `.vsf` files should work fine, if formatted according to the
following guidelines.

The first line specifies default bead type which means all atom lines for
beads of this type are unnecessary (provided those beads are not in a
molecule). All atom lines specify VDW radius and atom name. If an atom is
in a residue, its residue number is appended to the atom line.
> `atom default radius 1.000000 name <name>`
>
> `...`
>
> `atom <id> radius 1.000000 name <name> resid <id>`
>
> `...`

Only the bead number and name are read, so both VDW radius and residue
number are not strictly necessary.  Short version of `atom` and `name`
keywords (`a` and `n` respectively) can be used.  Other keywords can be
included, since `TransformVsf` will disregard them. No comments are
allowed.

Bond lines of `.vsf` are not read and are therefore irrelevant to
`TransformVsf`.

Format of optional bond file {#BondFile}
=====

File with molecule structure must contain name of the molecule type (same
as in `FIELD`) followed by number of bonds on the next line and on every
subsequent line two index numbers corresponding to the two connected beads
(bead numbers start from one and are ordered according to beads in `FIELD`
section for the given molecule). The bead numbers does not have to be
sorted in any way.

Example of bond file:

> `triangle`
>
> `3`
>
> `1 2`
>
> `3 1`
>
> `2 3`

Bond information about molecule types not present in the bond file will be read
from `FIELD`.

Format of output structure file {#TransformVsf-output}
=====

Every atom line in the generated structure file contains bead's index number,
mass, charge and name. Atom lines for beads in molecules also contain
molecule's id number and the name of the type of molecule. The bond section of
`output.vsf` lists all bonds one by one (i.e. no chains of bonds in the format
`<id1>:: <id2>` are used). Information about which bonds belong to which
molecule is provided as has comment. The file has the following format:
> `atom default name <name> mass <m> charge <q>`
>
> `...`
>
> `atom <id> name <name> mass <m> charge <q>`
>
> `...`
>
> `atom <id> name <name> mass <m> charge <q> segid <name> resid <id>`
>
> `...`
> 
> `# resid <id>`
>
> `<bonded bead id1>: <bonded bead id2>`
>
> `...`

For VMD atom selection:
> `segid <name>`
> > selects all molecules with given name(s)
> `resid <id>`
> > selects molecule(s) with given index number(s)
> `charge <q>`
> > selects all beads with given charge(s) (double quotes are required for
> > negative charge)
> `mass <m>`
> > selects all beads with given mass(es)
